Bipra Dey

CISC 3300 S25 
Homework 8 

1. What are sessions and cookies? What do they do? 
Sessions are text files that store information about a user and their preferences and interactions on the server. 
Sessions allow websites to track user-specific data and provide a better user experience as they do not have to re-enter data such as the contents of their shopping cart. 
Cookies are text files that store user data on the browser/client-side. 
Cookies have a similar benefit to sessions and can manage sessions through a session id or by storing login credentials and authentication tokens.

2. What is SQL? MySQL? What are relational databases? 
SQL (Structured Query Language) is a query language that allows developers to access and manipulate databases. 
MySQL is a RBDMS (relational database management system) that stores and manages data while allowing developers to use SQL queries to manipulate the data it stores. 
Relational databases are a type of database that stores data in the form of tables that consist of rows and columns with the ability for each table to form a relationship with one or more tables in the database based on the purpose of the tables. 

3. What is normalization in SQL? 
SQL normalization is the process of organizing data in a database that involves creating tables and establishing relationships between tables so that data is protected and deduplicated. 

4. What are primary and foreign keys? 
Primary keys are a column or a group of columns in a relational database table that uniquely identifies and indexes a row in that table. 
Foreign keys are a column or a group of columns in a relational database table that references the primary key of another table in order to establish a relationship between the two tables. 

5. Write statements to:
a. create a new database in phpmyadmin (or use the one from the in class assignment)
b. create a notes table, include the following columns:
i. id, which should be an integer type, have space for 11 characters, not be
nullable, and auto increment, set the id column as the primary key
ii. title, which should be an varchar type, have space for 80 characters, and
not be nullable
iii. description, which should be an text type, not be nullable, and auto
increment

6. Write statements to
a. insert some data
b. update some data
c. delete some data

7. Write queries to
a. select all notes and order them by name in reverse alphabetical order
b. select the second note in the table only, assume that you don’t know the ID
number of it
c. select all notes that have descriptions which contain vowels

Include SQL statements from questions 5-7 in a sql file in your submission.
