Bipra Dey

CISC 3300 S25 
Homework 4 

1. How does an interpreted programming language differ from a compiled language? 
In an interpreted programming language like JavaScript, the source code is not compiled directly by the target machine. 
In an interpreted programming language, a separate program called the interpreter reads the code line-by-line during runtime and then executes it. 
However, a compiled language like C++ involves a compiler translating the code into machine code before the program is executed. 
Interpreted programming languages are more flexible and the source code is platform independent. 
Compiled languages are platform dependent and take longer to test as there is additional time required for the compilation step. 
Despite that, programs created by compiled languages are faster than interpreted code because there is no overhead from the process of translating code at runtime. 

2. Contrast dynamically typed programming languages with statically typed ones. And contrast strongly typed programming languages with weakly typed ones. 
Dynamically typed programming languages perform type checking at runtime which means that the type of a variable can change over its lifetime. 
The type is bound to the value whereas in statically typed programming languages, the type is bound to the variable and types are checked at compile time. 
Strongly typed programming languages involve type discipline that is enforced by the compiler. 
On the other hand, weakly typed programming languages can recognize different data types like strings but don’t use them strictly and they attempt to convert data when it is reasonable. 

3. What is the difference between var, let, and const when declaring variables in JS? 
Var is considered the old way of declaring variables in JavaScript. 
Variables declared with var are redeclarable and are global and function scoped. 
Variables declared with let are block scoped and redeclarable. 
Variables declared with const are block scoped and not redeclarable. 

4. What are anonymous functions? Higher order functions? Callback functions? First class functions? 
An anonymous function is an unnamed function. 
A higher order function is a function that returns a function or takes other functions as arguments. 
A callback function is a function that is passed as an argument to another function so it can be called later. 
A first class function involves functions in a language being treated as variables.   

5. Define objects in JavaScript. 
Objects in JavaScript are data structures that consist of key-value pairs. 

6. Loop through the cats array variable found here: 
https://github.com/cisc3300/SP25-lecture-code/blob/main/2-13-lecture/cats.js 
a. if the cats adoption status is available add that cat’s name to a result array 
b. create a new sentence about your newly adopted cats from your result array via the join array function. 

7. Create a variable that sets a value via a ternary operator. Use Math.random() * 10, which will output a random number from 1 to 10, to set the variable’s value as a string of “greater than five!” if the output from Math.random() * 10 is greater than 5, and “less than five!” if the output is less than 5. 

8. Loop through the values of the cat object variable found here: 
https://github.com/cisc3300/SP25-lecture-code/blob/main/2-13-lecture/cats.js. Console.log the value of each property in the loop. 

9. Write two if statements, pick the correct comparison operator to have the first if statement equate an integer of 1 and a string of ‘1’ as true. And pick the correct comparison operator to have the second equate an integer of 1 and a string of ‘1’ as false. 

10. Using the map function create a new array via the cats array used in question 6. Pass the map function a callback function that accepts each element of the array as a parameter. Return the value of the name property of each object in the cats array concatenated with the string “ is cute!”. The output should be an array of “Charlie is cute!”, “Lily is cute!”, etc. 
Include questions 6-10 in a single JavaScript file or HTML file via a script tag.
