Bipra Dey 

CISC 3300 SP24 
Homework 1 
1. What is HTML? What does it do? 
	
HTML stands for Hyper Text Markup Language. HTML is a set of rules that describes how the layout and presentation of text and images should appear in a digital document.

2. Access https://www.fordham.edu/. In your own words, describe how this webpage uses structure to convey meaning and navigation options to the user. 

The top of the page contains a navigation bar with the university’s name along with links to various pages on the Fordham webpage such as Academics or Athletics. 
The user can also hover over the links to produce a dropdown that displays sub-links for each webpage that the user can navigate to. 
These links are anchor tags with hrefs. There is a search bar that uses a search icon to make it stand out and allows the user to search the webpage for a specific term. 
There is a large banner image of the NYC skyline that is used to convey the location of Fordham University. 
Additionally, there are multiple images or videos next to or above links to articles in order to encourage users to read the news related to Fordham University. 
There is a calendar on the page which highlights the university’s events that can be scrolled or clicked through using arrow buttons. 
There is a bottom footer with helpful links along with icon links to the university’s social media. 
Lastly, there is a navigation button that appears as you scroll from the top of the page that takes you to the top of the page regardless of where you are within the page.

3. What is an HTML element? Tag? Attribute? 

An HTML element is a collection of start and end tags with the content inserted between them. 
Tags are the part of the markup language that act like containers that provide instructions to the browser on how to layout and present the content within the tags. 
Attributes provide additional information about the contents of an element and they appear in the opening tag of an HTML element. Attributes are made up of a name and a value. 

4. What does it mean when an element has semantic meaning? And structural meaning? 

An element with semantic meaning provides extra information to the browser to describe its purpose within the layout and presentation of the page. 
An element with structural meaning provides instructions on the organization of content within the webpage. 

5. What is the default behavior when submitting a HTML form? 

The default behavior when submitting an HTML form is a get request which causes a page reload.

6. Create a webpage for a fake business of your choosing. It should have: a. an h1 element with the title of the business 
b. a p element with a description of the business 
c. a subsection with a sub heading and p element describing that section d. create an images directory and put a relevant image in the directory, include that image on the webpage via a src attribute with a relative path. 
e. a contact form which should have: 
i. a text input element for first name with a label 
ii. a text input element for last name with a label 
iii. an email element with a label 
iv. a submit element with a value of “Submit” 
Please create a directory called homework-1 in your local repository, include a .txt file with the answers for questions 1-5 and an .html file for question 6 on submission.
