Bipra Dey

CISC 3300 S25 
Homework 6 

1. Define hoisting and closures in JS. 

Hoisting occurs during the prepare phase when a script enters a new execution context and is when variables, functions, and arguments are created. 
Closures are the ability of a function to remember the variables and functions that are declared in its outer scope. 
Closures enable the ability to achieve encapsulation. In an execution context, the scope is the current execution context's variables object and the variables object for each parent execution context. 

2. What is PHP? What do server side languages do in web development? 

PHP (PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) is an interpreted programming language that is used to build webpages. 
PHP is used as a server side scripting language in web development. In web development, server side languages are used to process user input and interact with other servers. 
Server side languages can validate user-submitted data and requests. These languages can then interact with databases to store submitted data and retrieve requested data.

3. What are some examples of how the PHP and JavaScript programming languages are alike and how they differ? 

Both PHP and JavaScript allow for object-oriented programming. They are both dynamic and weakly typed. 
They share similar syntax with curly braces and similar operators such as the arithmetic operators. 
However, although both languages are used in web development, PHP is predominantly used for server side scripting while JavaScript is used on the client side. 
Many of PHP’s foundational features are based on the procedural paradigm while JavaScript is functional. Also, JavaScript is single-threaded with an event loop whereas PHP is multi-threaded. 

4. Why pick PHP over another server side scripting language like Python or Node? 

PHP has many advantages over other server side scripting languages like Python or Node including its ease of use in content management systems, 
rapid development due to its ability to be mixed with HTML, cheap usage since it is an open-source technology, and its support for most general basic web application functionality. 

5. Compare and contrast echo and var_dump. 

Both echo and var_dump are used to output information to the screen. However, echo is used to print simple strings and numbers and it cannot print arrays. 
On the other hand, var_dump is used for debugging as it shows additional information about the variables it prints including type and string length. Var_dump can also recursively print arrays. 

6. Create a new PHP project, in the index.php file create: 
a. An associative array with keys and values. 
b. Loop through the array and echo out a string that contains each key and value.

7. Add to question 6: 
a. Create a function that has: 
i. a set return type 
ii. an optional parameter 
iii. a typed parameter 
iv. and call your function with values that have the correct data types 

8. Create another PHP project that includes a “resources” directory. In the resources directory create an HTML file that has elements to show an image, also place an image in the resources directory. 
When the domain is accessed in a browser(localhost), return the HTML page with the working image.
